booklist/bookinfo.md, before:

#Books for our store  
[ISBN lookup](https://isbnsearch.org/)

**Beginner**

1. [Coding for Dummies](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/coding-for-dummies/9781118951309/)
***Description***
No coding experience is required for Coding For Dummies, your one-stop guide to building a foundation of knowledge in writing computer code for web, application, and software development. It doesn't matter if you've dabbled in coding or never written a line of code, this book guides you through the basics. Using foundational web development languages like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, it explains in plain English how coding works and why it's needed.

Online exercises developed by Codecademy, a leading online code training site, help hone coding skills and demonstrate results as you practice.

author:Nikhil Abraham
Publisher: For Dummies
Release Date: February 2015
ISBN: 9781118951309

2. [Head First Design Patterns: A Brain-Friendly Guide](http://amzn.to/2Hd6x57)  
***Description:***
     At any given moment, someone struggles with the same software design problems you have. And, chances are, someone else has already solved your problem. This edition of Head First Design Patterns—now updated for Java 8—shows you the tried-and-true, road-tested patterns used by developers to create functional, elegant, reusable, and flexible software. By the time you finish this book, you’ll be able to take advantage of the best design practices and experiences of those who have fought the beast of software design and triumphed.
     Author: Robert C. Martin
    Publisher: O'Reilly Media; 1st edition 
    Release Date: October 2004
    ISBN-10: 9780596007126
    Price:
    Format:

3. [Head First Learn to Code](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/head-first-learn/9781491958858/)
***Description***
It’s no secret the world around you is becoming more connected, more configurable, more programmable, more computational. You can remain a passive participant, or you can learn to code. With Head First Learn to Code you’ll learn how to think computationally and how to write code to make your computer, mobile device, or anything with a CPU do things for you. Using the Python programming language, you’ll learn step by step the core concepts of programming as well as many fundamental topics from computer science, such as data structures, storage, abstraction, recursion, and modularity.
author:  Eric Freeman
Publisher: O'Reilly Media, Inc.
Release Date: January 2018
ISBN: 9781491958858
price:
format:

4. [Essential TypeScript: From Beginner to Pro](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/essential-typescript-from/9781484249796/)
 ***Description***
Work with Typescript and get the most from this versatile open source language. Author Adam Freeman begins this book by describing Typescript and the benefits it offers, and goes on to show you how to use TypeScript in realistic scenarios, going in-depth to give you the knowledge you need. 
author: Adam Freeman
Publisher: Apress
Release Date: August 2019
ISBN: 9781484249796
price:
format:

5. [Project Management Absolute Beginner’s Guide, Fourth Edition](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/project-management-absolute/9780134653914/)
***Description***
Succeed as a project manager, even if you’ve never run a project before! This book is the fastest way to master every project management task, from upfront budgeting and scheduling through execution, managing teams through closing projects, and learning from experience. Updated with more insights from the front lines, including agile approaches, dealing with security and privacy priorities, and leading remote/virtual teams, along with the latest on Microsoft Project and PMI standards and certifications and a special bonus chapter on preparing for the PMP certification. This book will show you exactly how to get the job done, one incredibly clear and easy step at a time. Project management has never, ever been this simple!


**Intermediate**

1. [You Don't Know Js (6 book series)](https://www.oreilly.com/playlists/70e6d999-1cef-49f7-84c0-fd6cf59b167c/)
author:Kyle Simpson
Publisher: O'Reilly Media, Inc.
Release Date: March 2015
ISBN: 9781491924471
price:
format:

***Description***
1. You Don't Know JS: this & Object Prototypes
2. You Don't Know JS: ES6 & Beyond
3. You Don't Know JS: Up & Going
4. You Don't Know JS: Async & Performance
5. You Don't Know JS: Scope & Closures
6. You Don't Know JS: Types & Grammar
No matter how much experience you have with JavaScript, odds are you don’t fully understand the language. This concise yet in-depth guide takes you inside scope and closures, two core concepts you need to know to become a more efficient and effective JavaScript programmer. You’ll learn how and why they work, and how an understanding of closures can be a powerful part of your development skillset


2. [Javascript the good parts](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596517748.do)
author: Douglas Crockford
Publisher: Yahoo Press
Release Date: December 2008
ISBN-13: 978-0596517748
price:
format:

**Advanced**

[Eloquent JavaScript](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/eloquent-javascript-3rd/9781492071198/)
***Description***
JavaScript lies at the heart of almost every modern web application, from social apps like Twitter to browser-based game frameworks like Phaser and Babylon. Though simple for beginners to pick up and play with, JavaScript is a flexible, complex language that you can use to build full-scale applications.

This much anticipated and thoroughly revised third edition of Eloquent JavaScript dives deep into the JavaScript language to show you how to write beautiful, effective code. It has been updated to reflect the current state of Java¬Script and web browsers and includes brand-new material on features like class notation, arrow functions, iterators, async functions, template strings, and block scope. A host of new exercises have also been added to test your skills and keep you on track.
author:Marijn Haverbeke
Publisher: No Starch Press
Release Date: December 2018
ISBN: 9781492071198
price:
format:
[Free PDF = Eloquent Javascript](https://eloquentjavascript.net/Eloquent_JavaScript.pdf)

[ProGit]()

[Free PDF = Pro Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)

**Career**

1. [The Complete Software Developer's Career Guide: How to Learn Programming Languages Quickly, Ace Your Programming Interview, and Land Your Software Developer Dream Job](https://www.amazon.com/Complete-Software-Developers-Career-Guide/dp/0999081411)
***Description:***
Technical Knowledge Alone Isn't Enough - Increase Your Income by Leveling Up Your Soft Skills
Early in his software developer career, John Sonmez discovered that technical knowledge alone isn't enough to break through to the next income level - developers need "soft skills" like the ability to learn new technologies just in time, communicate clearly with management and consulting clients, negotiate a fair hourly rate, and unite teammates and coworkers in working toward a common goal.
As John invested in these skills his career took off, and he became a highly paid, highly sought-after developer and consultant.
Author: John Sonmez
    Publisher: Simple Programmer, LLC 
    Release Date: July 13, 2017
    ISBN-10: 0999081411
    Price:
    Format:
    website:https://simpleprogrammer.com/confirm/sp-welcome-c/?__s=3sppknrgqbbssactqsuz

2. [Women in Tech](https://www.amazon.com/Women-Tech-Practical-Inspiring-Stories/dp/1632171406/ref=sr_1_fkmr1_1?keywords=women+in+tech+sarah+wheeler&qid=1576274980&s=books&sr=1-1-fkmr1)
   ***Description***
   Written by a female startup CEO and featuring a host of other successful contributors, this book will help dismantle the unconscious social bias against women in the tech industry. Readers will learn:

    The secrets of salary negotiation
    The best format for tech resumes
     How to ace a tech interview
      The perks of both contracting (W-9) and salaried full-time work
       The secrets of mentorship
      How to start your own company
Author: Tarah Wheeler
    Publisher: Sasquatch Books; Reprint edition 
    Release Date: August 22, 2017
  ISBN-10: 1632171406
    Price:
    Format:

3. [Cracking the Coding Interview: 150 Programming Questions and Solutions 5th Edition](https://www.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/098478280) 
***Description***
The full list of topics are as follows:

The Interview Process
Behind the Scenes
Special Situations
Before the Interview
Behavioral Preparation
Technical Questions (+ 5 Algorithm Approaches)
Author:Gayle Laakmann McDowell
Publisher: CareerCup; 5th Revised & enlarged edition 
Release Date: August 22, 2011
ISBN-10: 098478280X
price:
format:

**Professional Development** 

1. [Test Driven Development:By Example](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/test-driven-development/0321146530/)
***Description***
Clean code that works--now. This is the seeming contradiction that lies behind much of the pain of programming. Test-driven development replies to this contradiction with a paradox--test the program before you write it.
A new idea? Not at all. Since the dawn of computing, programmers have been specifying the inputs and outputs before programming precisely. Test-driven development takes this age-old idea, mixes it with modern languages and programming environments, and cooks up a tasty stew guaranteed to satisfy your appetite for clean code that works--now.
Author:  Kent Beck
Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
Release Date: November 2002
ISBN: 0321146530
Price:
Format:

2. [The Pragmatic Programmer: your journey to mastery, 20th Anniversary Edition, 2nd Edition](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-pragmatic-programmer/9780135956977/)  
***Description:***
This book is a great read to fill the gaps that have been missed by all other books on this list. The authors will show you what it takes to master our trade, and hopefully they will equipe you with skill and idea to avoid the common pitfalls.
Author: Andrew Hunt, David Thomas
Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
Release Date: September 2019
ISBN: 9780135956977
Price:
format:


3. [The Business Value of Developer Relations](https://www.apress.com/gp/book/9781484237472)
***Description***
Discover the true value of Developer Relations as you learn to build and maintain positive relationships with your developer community. Use the principles laid out in this book to walk through your company goals and discover how you can formulate a plan tailored to your specific needs.
Author:   Mary Thengvall
Publisher: Apress
Release Date: 2018
ISBN 978-1-4842-3748-9
Price:
Format

4. [The Clean Coder: A Code of Conduct for Professional Programmers by Robert C. Martin](http://amzn.to/2EqFxlb)
***Description***
	Compared to Law, Medicine, Engineering, Accounting, Programming is a relatevely easy field to enter. There're countless success stories of self-thought programmers. This book introduces to what a Professional Programmer is. The author shows how to approach software development with honor, self-respect, and pride; work well and work clean; communicate and estimate faithfully; face difficult decisions with clarity and honesty; and understand that deep knowledge comes with a responsibility to act.
    Author: 
    Publisher: 
    Release Date: 
    ISBN: 
    Price:
    Format:

5. [Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship ](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/clean-code/9780136083238/) 
***Description:***
 Even bad code can function. But if code isn't clean, it can bring a development organization to its knees. Every year, countless hours and significant resources are lost because of poorly written code. But it doesn't have to be that way. " Another book by Uncle Bob, it is an opinionated book, but full of wonderful resources and advice on how to improve your code.
Author: Robert C. Martin
Publisher: Prentice Hall
Release Date: May 2011
ISBN: 9780132542913
    Price:
    Format:

    website:https://cleancoders.com/videos?gclid=CjwKCAiA58fvBRAzEiwAQW-hzWJd8T-7H0zHBfu7qXNStW0sbtViIppeaQYNiCFOx363hLx6JLhN_RoC5sUQAvD_BwE

6. [Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams](http://amzn.to/2sxPBDs)  
 	IT management is your ultimate goal? Read this book! Written in the 80s,it outlines the major issues with current management practices in software development field. It's amazing that most companies still make the same mistakes. If you won't move into management, at least this book will help you ask the right questions and look for red flags next time you're looking for a new job. Personally, I cannot chuckle inside when I hear "Open space office"
ISDN:
Price:
Format:

 7. [Working Effectively with Legacy Code](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/working-effectively-with/0131177052/)  
 by **Michael C. Feathers and Growing Object-Oriented Software**, Guided by Tests by Steve Freeman and Nat Pryce: 
 ***Description:*** 
 After I've finished Starting to Unit Test I want to reread these two classics on unit testing. I know I've internalized many lessons I took away from them when I first read them, but it's definitely time to see what more I can get from them.
 Author:Michael C. Feathers
Publisher: Prentice Hall
Release Date: September 2004
ISBN: 0131177052
Price:
Format:
[Free PDF Working Effectively with Legacy Code](http://ptgmedia.pearsoncmg.com/images/9780131177055/samplepages/0131177052.pdf)

8. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game, Second Edition](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/agile-software-development/0321482751/)
***description***
The agile model of software development has taken the world by storm. Now, in Agile Software Development, Second Edition, one of agile’s leading pioneers updates his Jolt Productivity award-winning book to reflect all that’s been learned about agile development since its original introduction.
Next, he systematically illuminates the agile model, shows how it has evolved, and answers the questions developers and project managers ask most often, including
Author:Alistair Cockburn
Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
Release Date: October 2006
ISBN: 0321482751
Price:
Format:

 **Starting to Unit Test** by Erik Dietrich: 
 ***Description:***
  Unit testing is pretty second nature to me, so I'm going to look back to the fundamentals this year to see what I've missed along the way. I'm sure there are gaps to fill.
Author:Alistair Cockburn
Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
Release Date: October 2006
ISBN: 0321482751
Price:
Format:

**Fiction**

1. [The Phoenix Project](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0988262592/ref=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sin?ie=UTF8&tag=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sin-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0988262592&SubscriptionId=1MGPYB6YW3HWK55XCGG2)
***Description***
Maxine wrangles with an ever-growing to-do list, every lead turning into a dead end:
“Trying to get a Phoenix build going is like playing Legend of Zelda, if it were written by a sadist, forcing her to adventure far and wide to find hidden keys scattered across the kingdom and given only measly clues from uncaring NPCs.”
Author: Gene Kim
Publisher: IT Revolution Press
Release Date: January 10th 2013
ISBN-10: 0988262592
Price:
Format:
 

2. [The Unicorn Project](https://itrevolution.com/the-unicorn-project/)
***Description***
In The Unicorn Project, we follow Maxine, a senior lead developer and architect, as she is exiled to the Phoenix Project, to the horror of her friends and colleagues, as punishment for contributing to a payroll outage. She tries to survive in what feels like a heartless and uncaring bureaucracy and to work within a system where no one can get anything done without endless committees, paperwork, and approvals.

The Age of Software is here, and another mass extinction event looms—this is a story about rebel developers and business leaders working together, racing against time to innovate, survive, and thrive in a time of unprecedented uncertainty…and opportunity.
 Author: Gene Kim
Publisher: IT Revolution Press
Release Date: November 26, 2019
ISBN-10: 1942788762
Price:
Format:

3. [coders](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/539883/coders-by-clive-thompson/)

***description***

Hello, world.
Facebook’s algorithms shaping the news. Self-driving cars roaming the streets. Revolution on Twitter and romance on Tinder. We live in a world constructed of code–and coders are the ones who built it for us. From acclaimed tech writer Clive Thompson comes a brilliant anthropological reckoning with the most powerful tribe in the world today, computer programmers, in a book that interrogates who they are, how they think, what qualifies as greatness in their world, and what should give us pause. They are the most quietly influential people on the planet, and Coders shines a light on their culture.

Author: CLIVE THOMPSON
Publisher:  Penguin Books
Release Date: Mar 24, 2020
ISBN 9780735220560
Price:
Format:

4. [Once Upon an Algorithm: How Stories Explain
Computing](https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/once-upon-an-algorithm-martin-erwig/1125986359)
***Description***
How Hansel and Gretel, Sherlock Holmes, the movie Groundhog Day , Harry Potter, and other familiar stories illustrate the concepts of computing.

Picture a computer scientist, staring at a screen and clicking away frantically on a keyboard, hacking into a system, or perhaps developing an app. Now delete that picture. In Once Upon an Algorithm , Martin Erwig explains computation as something that takes place beyond electronic computers, and computer science as the study of systematic problem solving. Erwig points out that many daily activities involve problem solving. Getting up in the morning, for example: You get up, take a shower, get dressed, eat breakfast. This simple daily routine solves a recurring problem through a series of well-defined steps. In computer science, such a routine is called an algorithm.
Author: CLIVE THOMPSON
Publisher:  MIT Press
Release Date: August 11, 2017
ISBN 9780262036634
Price:
Format:

5. []()

Commit message:

added pattern recog, to fiction

booklist/bookinfo.md, after:

#Books for our store  
[ISBN lookup](https://isbnsearch.org/)

**Beginner**

1. [Coding for Dummies](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/coding-for-dummies/9781118951309/)
***Description***
No coding experience is required for Coding For Dummies, your one-stop guide to building a foundation of knowledge in writing computer code for web, application, and software development. It doesn't matter if you've dabbled in coding or never written a line of code, this book guides you through the basics. Using foundational web development languages like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, it explains in plain English how coding works and why it's needed.

Online exercises developed by Codecademy, a leading online code training site, help hone coding skills and demonstrate results as you practice.

author:Nikhil Abraham
Publisher: For Dummies
Release Date: February 2015
ISBN: 9781118951309

2. [Head First Design Patterns: A Brain-Friendly Guide](http://amzn.to/2Hd6x57)  
***Description:***
     At any given moment, someone struggles with the same software design problems you have. And, chances are, someone else has already solved your problem. This edition of Head First Design Patterns—now updated for Java 8—shows you the tried-and-true, road-tested patterns used by developers to create functional, elegant, reusable, and flexible software. By the time you finish this book, you’ll be able to take advantage of the best design practices and experiences of those who have fought the beast of software design and triumphed.
     Author: Robert C. Martin
    Publisher: O'Reilly Media; 1st edition 
    Release Date: October 2004
    ISBN-10: 9780596007126
    Price:
    Format:

3. [Head First Learn to Code](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/head-first-learn/9781491958858/)
***Description***
It’s no secret the world around you is becoming more connected, more configurable, more programmable, more computational. You can remain a passive participant, or you can learn to code. With Head First Learn to Code you’ll learn how to think computationally and how to write code to make your computer, mobile device, or anything with a CPU do things for you. Using the Python programming language, you’ll learn step by step the core concepts of programming as well as many fundamental topics from computer science, such as data structures, storage, abstraction, recursion, and modularity.
author:  Eric Freeman
Publisher: O'Reilly Media, Inc.
Release Date: January 2018
ISBN: 9781491958858
price:
format:

4. [Essential TypeScript: From Beginner to Pro](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/essential-typescript-from/9781484249796/)
 ***Description***
Work with Typescript and get the most from this versatile open source language. Author Adam Freeman begins this book by describing Typescript and the benefits it offers, and goes on to show you how to use TypeScript in realistic scenarios, going in-depth to give you the knowledge you need. 
author: Adam Freeman
Publisher: Apress
Release Date: August 2019
ISBN: 9781484249796
price:
format:

5. [Project Management Absolute Beginner’s Guide, Fourth Edition](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/project-management-absolute/9780134653914/)
***Description***
Succeed as a project manager, even if you’ve never run a project before! This book is the fastest way to master every project management task, from upfront budgeting and scheduling through execution, managing teams through closing projects, and learning from experience. Updated with more insights from the front lines, including agile approaches, dealing with security and privacy priorities, and leading remote/virtual teams, along with the latest on Microsoft Project and PMI standards and certifications and a special bonus chapter on preparing for the PMP certification. This book will show you exactly how to get the job done, one incredibly clear and easy step at a time. Project management has never, ever been this simple!


**Intermediate**

1. [You Don't Know Js (6 book series)](https://www.oreilly.com/playlists/70e6d999-1cef-49f7-84c0-fd6cf59b167c/)
author:Kyle Simpson
Publisher: O'Reilly Media, Inc.
Release Date: March 2015
ISBN: 9781491924471
price:
format:

***Description***
1. You Don't Know JS: this & Object Prototypes
2. You Don't Know JS: ES6 & Beyond
3. You Don't Know JS: Up & Going
4. You Don't Know JS: Async & Performance
5. You Don't Know JS: Scope & Closures
6. You Don't Know JS: Types & Grammar
No matter how much experience you have with JavaScript, odds are you don’t fully understand the language. This concise yet in-depth guide takes you inside scope and closures, two core concepts you need to know to become a more efficient and effective JavaScript programmer. You’ll learn how and why they work, and how an understanding of closures can be a powerful part of your development skillset


2. [Javascript the good parts](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596517748.do)
author: Douglas Crockford
Publisher: Yahoo Press
Release Date: December 2008
ISBN-13: 978-0596517748
price:
format:

**Advanced**

[Eloquent JavaScript](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/eloquent-javascript-3rd/9781492071198/)
***Description***
JavaScript lies at the heart of almost every modern web application, from social apps like Twitter to browser-based game frameworks like Phaser and Babylon. Though simple for beginners to pick up and play with, JavaScript is a flexible, complex language that you can use to build full-scale applications.

This much anticipated and thoroughly revised third edition of Eloquent JavaScript dives deep into the JavaScript language to show you how to write beautiful, effective code. It has been updated to reflect the current state of Java¬Script and web browsers and includes brand-new material on features like class notation, arrow functions, iterators, async functions, template strings, and block scope. A host of new exercises have also been added to test your skills and keep you on track.
author:Marijn Haverbeke
Publisher: No Starch Press
Release Date: December 2018
ISBN: 9781492071198
price:
format:
[Free PDF = Eloquent Javascript](https://eloquentjavascript.net/Eloquent_JavaScript.pdf)

[ProGit]()

[Free PDF = Pro Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)

**Career**

1. [The Complete Software Developer's Career Guide: How to Learn Programming Languages Quickly, Ace Your Programming Interview, and Land Your Software Developer Dream Job](https://www.amazon.com/Complete-Software-Developers-Career-Guide/dp/0999081411)
***Description:***
Technical Knowledge Alone Isn't Enough - Increase Your Income by Leveling Up Your Soft Skills
Early in his software developer career, John Sonmez discovered that technical knowledge alone isn't enough to break through to the next income level - developers need "soft skills" like the ability to learn new technologies just in time, communicate clearly with management and consulting clients, negotiate a fair hourly rate, and unite teammates and coworkers in working toward a common goal.
As John invested in these skills his career took off, and he became a highly paid, highly sought-after developer and consultant.
Author: John Sonmez
    Publisher: Simple Programmer, LLC 
    Release Date: July 13, 2017
    ISBN-10: 0999081411
    Price:
    Format:
    website:https://simpleprogrammer.com/confirm/sp-welcome-c/?__s=3sppknrgqbbssactqsuz

2. [Women in Tech](https://www.amazon.com/Women-Tech-Practical-Inspiring-Stories/dp/1632171406/ref=sr_1_fkmr1_1?keywords=women+in+tech+sarah+wheeler&qid=1576274980&s=books&sr=1-1-fkmr1)
   ***Description***
   Written by a female startup CEO and featuring a host of other successful contributors, this book will help dismantle the unconscious social bias against women in the tech industry. Readers will learn:

    The secrets of salary negotiation
    The best format for tech resumes
     How to ace a tech interview
      The perks of both contracting (W-9) and salaried full-time work
       The secrets of mentorship
      How to start your own company
Author: Tarah Wheeler
    Publisher: Sasquatch Books; Reprint edition 
    Release Date: August 22, 2017
  ISBN-10: 1632171406
    Price:
    Format:

3. [Cracking the Coding Interview: 150 Programming Questions and Solutions 5th Edition](https://www.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/098478280) 
***Description***
The full list of topics are as follows:

The Interview Process
Behind the Scenes
Special Situations
Before the Interview
Behavioral Preparation
Technical Questions (+ 5 Algorithm Approaches)
Author:Gayle Laakmann McDowell
Publisher: CareerCup; 5th Revised & enlarged edition 
Release Date: August 22, 2011
ISBN-10: 098478280X
price:
format:

**Professional Development** 

1. [Test Driven Development:By Example](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/test-driven-development/0321146530/)
***Description***
Clean code that works--now. This is the seeming contradiction that lies behind much of the pain of programming. Test-driven development replies to this contradiction with a paradox--test the program before you write it.
A new idea? Not at all. Since the dawn of computing, programmers have been specifying the inputs and outputs before programming precisely. Test-driven development takes this age-old idea, mixes it with modern languages and programming environments, and cooks up a tasty stew guaranteed to satisfy your appetite for clean code that works--now.
Author:  Kent Beck
Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
Release Date: November 2002
ISBN: 0321146530
Price:
Format:

2. [The Pragmatic Programmer: your journey to mastery, 20th Anniversary Edition, 2nd Edition](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-pragmatic-programmer/9780135956977/)  
***Description:***
This book is a great read to fill the gaps that have been missed by all other books on this list. The authors will show you what it takes to master our trade, and hopefully they will equipe you with skill and idea to avoid the common pitfalls.
Author: Andrew Hunt, David Thomas
Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
Release Date: September 2019
ISBN: 9780135956977
Price:
format:


3. [The Business Value of Developer Relations](https://www.apress.com/gp/book/9781484237472)
***Description***
Discover the true value of Developer Relations as you learn to build and maintain positive relationships with your developer community. Use the principles laid out in this book to walk through your company goals and discover how you can formulate a plan tailored to your specific needs.
Author:   Mary Thengvall
Publisher: Apress
Release Date: 2018
ISBN 978-1-4842-3748-9
Price:
Format

4. [The Clean Coder: A Code of Conduct for Professional Programmers by Robert C. Martin](http://amzn.to/2EqFxlb)
***Description***
	Compared to Law, Medicine, Engineering, Accounting, Programming is a relatevely easy field to enter. There're countless success stories of self-thought programmers. This book introduces to what a Professional Programmer is. The author shows how to approach software development with honor, self-respect, and pride; work well and work clean; communicate and estimate faithfully; face difficult decisions with clarity and honesty; and understand that deep knowledge comes with a responsibility to act.
    Author: 
    Publisher: 
    Release Date: 
    ISBN: 
    Price:
    Format:

5. [Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship ](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/clean-code/9780136083238/) 
***Description:***
 Even bad code can function. But if code isn't clean, it can bring a development organization to its knees. Every year, countless hours and significant resources are lost because of poorly written code. But it doesn't have to be that way. " Another book by Uncle Bob, it is an opinionated book, but full of wonderful resources and advice on how to improve your code.
Author: Robert C. Martin
Publisher: Prentice Hall
Release Date: May 2011
ISBN: 9780132542913
    Price:
    Format:

    website:https://cleancoders.com/videos?gclid=CjwKCAiA58fvBRAzEiwAQW-hzWJd8T-7H0zHBfu7qXNStW0sbtViIppeaQYNiCFOx363hLx6JLhN_RoC5sUQAvD_BwE

6. [Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams](http://amzn.to/2sxPBDs)  
 	IT management is your ultimate goal? Read this book! Written in the 80s,it outlines the major issues with current management practices in software development field. It's amazing that most companies still make the same mistakes. If you won't move into management, at least this book will help you ask the right questions and look for red flags next time you're looking for a new job. Personally, I cannot chuckle inside when I hear "Open space office"
ISDN:
Price:
Format:

 7. [Working Effectively with Legacy Code](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/working-effectively-with/0131177052/)  
 by **Michael C. Feathers and Growing Object-Oriented Software**, Guided by Tests by Steve Freeman and Nat Pryce: 
 ***Description:*** 
 After I've finished Starting to Unit Test I want to reread these two classics on unit testing. I know I've internalized many lessons I took away from them when I first read them, but it's definitely time to see what more I can get from them.
 Author:Michael C. Feathers
Publisher: Prentice Hall
Release Date: September 2004
ISBN: 0131177052
Price:
Format:
[Free PDF Working Effectively with Legacy Code](http://ptgmedia.pearsoncmg.com/images/9780131177055/samplepages/0131177052.pdf)

8. [Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game, Second Edition](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/agile-software-development/0321482751/)
***description***
The agile model of software development has taken the world by storm. Now, in Agile Software Development, Second Edition, one of agile’s leading pioneers updates his Jolt Productivity award-winning book to reflect all that’s been learned about agile development since its original introduction.
Next, he systematically illuminates the agile model, shows how it has evolved, and answers the questions developers and project managers ask most often, including
Author:Alistair Cockburn
Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
Release Date: October 2006
ISBN: 0321482751
Price:
Format:

 **Starting to Unit Test** by Erik Dietrich: 
 ***Description:***
  Unit testing is pretty second nature to me, so I'm going to look back to the fundamentals this year to see what I've missed along the way. I'm sure there are gaps to fill.
Author:Alistair Cockburn
Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
Release Date: October 2006
ISBN: 0321482751
Price:
Format:

**Fiction**

1. [The Phoenix Project](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0988262592/ref=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sin?ie=UTF8&tag=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sin-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0988262592&SubscriptionId=1MGPYB6YW3HWK55XCGG2)
***Description***
Maxine wrangles with an ever-growing to-do list, every lead turning into a dead end:
“Trying to get a Phoenix build going is like playing Legend of Zelda, if it were written by a sadist, forcing her to adventure far and wide to find hidden keys scattered across the kingdom and given only measly clues from uncaring NPCs.”
Author: Gene Kim
Publisher: IT Revolution Press
Release Date: January 10th 2013
ISBN-10: 0988262592
Price:
Format:
 

2. [The Unicorn Project](https://itrevolution.com/the-unicorn-project/)
***Description***
In The Unicorn Project, we follow Maxine, a senior lead developer and architect, as she is exiled to the Phoenix Project, to the horror of her friends and colleagues, as punishment for contributing to a payroll outage. She tries to survive in what feels like a heartless and uncaring bureaucracy and to work within a system where no one can get anything done without endless committees, paperwork, and approvals.

The Age of Software is here, and another mass extinction event looms—this is a story about rebel developers and business leaders working together, racing against time to innovate, survive, and thrive in a time of unprecedented uncertainty…and opportunity.
 Author: Gene Kim
Publisher: IT Revolution Press
Release Date: November 26, 2019
ISBN-10: 1942788762
Price:
Format:

3. [coders](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/539883/coders-by-clive-thompson/)

***description***

Hello, world.
Facebook’s algorithms shaping the news. Self-driving cars roaming the streets. Revolution on Twitter and romance on Tinder. We live in a world constructed of code–and coders are the ones who built it for us. From acclaimed tech writer Clive Thompson comes a brilliant anthropological reckoning with the most powerful tribe in the world today, computer programmers, in a book that interrogates who they are, how they think, what qualifies as greatness in their world, and what should give us pause. They are the most quietly influential people on the planet, and Coders shines a light on their culture.

Author: CLIVE THOMPSON
Publisher:  Penguin Books
Release Date: Mar 24, 2020
ISBN 9780735220560
Price:
Format:

4. [Once Upon an Algorithm: How Stories Explain
Computing](https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/once-upon-an-algorithm-martin-erwig/1125986359)
***Description***
How Hansel and Gretel, Sherlock Holmes, the movie Groundhog Day , Harry Potter, and other familiar stories illustrate the concepts of computing.

Picture a computer scientist, staring at a screen and clicking away frantically on a keyboard, hacking into a system, or perhaps developing an app. Now delete that picture. In Once Upon an Algorithm , Martin Erwig explains computation as something that takes place beyond electronic computers, and computer science as the study of systematic problem solving. Erwig points out that many daily activities involve problem solving. Getting up in the morning, for example: You get up, take a shower, get dressed, eat breakfast. This simple daily routine solves a recurring problem through a series of well-defined steps. In computer science, such a routine is called an algorithm.
Author: CLIVE THOMPSON
Publisher:  MIT Press
Release Date: August 11, 2017
ISBN 9780262036634
Price:
Format:

5. [Pattern Recognition](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22320.Pattern_Recognition)
***Description***
Cayce Pollard is an expensive, spookily intuitive market-research consultant. In London on a job, she is offered a secret assignment: to investigate some intriguing snippets of video that have been appearing on the Internet. An entire subculture of people is obsessed with these bits of footage, and anybody who can create that kind of brand loyalty would be a gold mine for Cayce's client. But when her borrowed apartment is burgled and her computer hacked, she realizes there's more to this project than she had expected.


Author: CLIVE THOMPSON
Publisher:  Penguin Books
Release Date: Mar 24, 2020
ISBN 9780735220560
Price:
Format:
